---
layout: post
title: archive.org, They're Everywhere
tags: [review]
---

[archive.org](http://archive.org), founded by Brewster Khale, is that web archiving website that everybody's heard of. They run the wayback machine, they've released BitTorrents of hours and hours of video and audio, and they're free. Amazing. Here's some stuff I've gleande from their website.

## [/about](http://archive.org/about/)

Lots of links to other places

The Archive has two practical considerations in dealing with digital collections: storage and preservation. Storage is hard because of how much data there is. Preservation faces challenges from: accidents, where data is lost because the storage medium becomes inaccessible; migration, moving data between storage mediums; and data formats becoming obsolete and unreadable.

## [/about/faqs](http://archive.org/about/faqs.php)


The wayback machine is ~2 Petabytes and grows at 20 terabytes per month.

Here are some things that make it difficult to archive a web site:

1. Robots.txt
2. Javascript - If content is loaded from the server using javascript then archiving will fail.
3. Server side image maps - These need to talk to the original server to work
4. Unknown sites
5. Orphan pages - I think this is very similar to unknown sites.

As a general rule of thumb, simple html is the easiest to archive.

##[/stats](http://archive.org/stats/)

Stats for the Internet Archive. Roughly 3m unique IPs per day over all services. Somewhere between 500k and 600k unique IPs for the wayback machine. Roughly 1500 hits per second for wayback machine

##[/web/petabox](http://archive.org/web/petabox.php)

New technology for storing archive data. Each petabox rack stores about 650 terabytes and the cluster requires about 6KW power per petabyte. In 2012 petaboxes were used to store 10 petabytes for the internet archive.

##[/about/ethics](http://archive.org/about/ethics_BK.php)

Thoughts on the ethics of digital librarianship:

1. Don't give away user logs except for scholarly use. Consider sanitizing the records before any transfer is undertaken.   
2. Take the job of information serving seriously. This means to provide a consistent, reliable service and represent the service provided accurately.
3. Count on wide use of the information served, for good uses and bad, so be proud of the information and the collection.
4. Completeness is important. Users learn as much from a question that has no answer as from the ones with answers.  This requires a complete and up-to-date collection.
5. Assume that the patron will not know the your affiliations, and therefore do not tempt patrons to use a service they would regret if they knew more about you.
6. Respect your patrons.  The opinion that users are "rocks with arms", as said by a colleague years ago, will not lead you to become a very helpful digital librarian.